# Gears Equipment - Rules - Archives of Nethys: Pathfinder 2nd Edition Database

Source HTML: `docs/aonprd/Rules.aspx-ID=1616&NoRedirect=1.htm`

# [Rules Index](./Rules.aspx.md) | [GM Screen](../GMScreen/GMScreen.aspx.md) | [Player's Guide](../PlayersGuide/PlayersGuide.aspx.md)

---

>

# Gears Equipment

Source [Guns & Gears pg. 60](../Source/Sources.aspx-ID=98.md)

Stories about gear and technology don't just focus on the innovative genius of inventors who toil and tinker until inspiration strikes and they discover something new. The inventions themselves are often what capture the imagination, sparking stories about these complex and unusual items. This chapter includes everything you need to add items of weird science to your fantasy game. While the equipment presented here tends toward clockwork and steampunk instead of science fiction, in a world that contains both magic and technology, that line can blur in multitudinous, marvelous ways.

## Three Innovations

While many of the items here contain their own unique blend of engineering, science, and, sometimes, magic, three major types of technology appear in several sections.

### Clockwork Technology

Clockwork technology is the least rare technology in this book, though it's still quite uncommon. Clockwork represents, if not a majority of the new inventions, then at least a plurality, spurred by cutting-edge research at the Clockwork Cathedral in Absalom and the return of New Thassilon, which surfaced some of the secrets of clockwork discovered by the ancient empire's first emperor, Xin. Most clockwork items need to be wound in order to work, but aside from a few extraordinary devices, the time and effort needed to wind up a clockwork item are far less than the duration and magnitude of its effects.

### Stasian Technology

Stasian technology is the rarest of the three types, channeling electricity from a limited supply of Stasian coils smuggled out of Irrisen, the land of eternal winter, which owns few Stasian coils to begin with. However, enough smuggled coils have spread to the mist-haunted principality of Ustalav to inspire a technological renaissance in the highest halls of Ustalavic academia. While Stasian technology is the newest form of electrical technology, and the one least dependent on magic, it's hardly the first time in Golarion's history that a civilization has attempted to harness electricity. Most notably, aeromantic infadibulum technology allowed the sky cities of the Shory empire to soar through the sky. However, such previous electrical technologies relied heavily on magic as a key component, as this made the inventions that harnessed them drastically more stable and powerful than a purely technological solution. After all, magic-users could create lightning bolts—what need was there for a non-magical alternative? While it might seem frivolous on magic-soaked Golarion, Stasian technology exists because it originates from another world where magic is much rarer. By utilizing less magical energy, Stasian tech offers a viable alternative. The core Stasian technology can be found on page 82, but other sections of this chapter have a few pieces of Stasian technology sprinkled in as well.

### Steam-Powered Technology

Steam technology is also an extremely recent invention, making it far less known than clockwork but still more accessible than Stasian technology, since it doesn't require the use of the heavily limited Stasian coils. Many regarded the idea to use steam for power as particularly novel simply because the world of Golarion contained so many other power sources that seemed more obvious or useful than the energy generated by the transition from water to steam. Most steam engines currently in use include a magical component used to heat the steam; for instance, a fire elemental generates a steady supply of heat on its own, though prior inventors would have used that energy directly rather than through the creation of steam. Nonetheless, several small proof-of-concept steam engines have successfully run safely and stably without the use of magic, through the use of a furnace to heat the water. Purely technological steam power will remain mostly a curiosity, though, as long as it continues to be less effective and convenient than steam power sourced through magical means.

## Gadgets

Gadgets are consumable technological inventions with innovative uses. Gadgets take a variety of forms, some handheld, others worn, and they often take a while to put on or take off. Depending on their forms, gadgets also have a variety of different effects. Due to the use of technology, all gadgets are uncommon or rare, though [inventors](../Class/Classes.aspx-ID=19.md) and regions with access to inventors have access to uncommon gadgets.

Gadgets are particularly important to inventors, some of whom learn tricks and techniques to create a number of temporary gadgets each day from spare parts without needing to spend additional time and money on the project. This, in turn, leads those inventors to be particularly profligate in the use of gadgets, which leads to an even stronger association between the two.

Gadgets are not, however, exclusive to inventors. In truth, anyone can make a gadget if they have the time, money, skill, and knowledge of how to do so. This sometimes leads others to misidentify a particularly technologically-savvy investigator or wizard using gadgets as an inventor.

### Related Rules

Chapter 11: Crafting & Treasure
(
Source [Core Rulebook pg. 531](../Source/Sources.aspx-ID=1.md)
)

## [Siege Weapons](./Rules.aspx-ID=1622.md)

Shattering towering palisades. Mowing down hordes of soldiers. Breaking through barred castle gates. All of these tasks call for something heftier than the typical armaments carried by the common soldier: siege weapons. These massive, often-complex devices require full crews to operate. In significant numbers, they allow attackers to lay siege to entire fortifications, just as their name would suggest.

There are two categories of siege weapons: mounted and portable. Mounted siege weapons take up a certain size and space, typically have defensive statistics, and are used for large-scale warfare. More adaptable are portable siege weapons, such as battering rams, which can be carried more easily and can serve a valuable role during large-scale warfare, smaller conflicts, or even exploration.

All siege weapons need more than one person to operate them, working together as a crew. These crew members all need to be adjacent to the siege weapon for it to operate. A siege weapon's stat block lists the minimum number needed and the maximum crew size. Adding additional crew beyond the minimum is useful for ensuring a quick and successful Load in uncertain conditions and allowing for enough time to Aim the siege weapon when firing at a moving target.

## Siege Weapons vs. Normal Weapons

Many of the benefits that apply to standard weapons— daggers, bows, battleaxes, and the like—don't work on siege weapons. They're simply too different in form and function. The GM might allow using them in certain circumstances, but this is fairly rare.

Character abilities that affect their attacks might work with portable siege weapons. For example, a battering ram might get the benefit of a character's bonuses that apply to attacks with two-handed weapons. The GM can determine what's reasonable and what's not. Because siege weapons require special actions to operate, a character can't use their special actions with them. Sorry, no Attacks of Opportunity with a battering ram!

## Building Siege Weapons

Just like other items, building a siege weapon requires using the Craft activity. However, due to the size, it typically takes more than one person to prepare some of the materials (such as felling tall trees and working them to create a trebuchet arm) and assemble the weapon. You typically need a number of workers equal to the minimum crew size for the siege weapon to complete it in the standard amount of time. It can take much longer or even be impossible for a smaller team or individual. Due to their specific uses, you might be able to use Engineering Lore or Warfare Lore instead of the Crafting skill when you Craft a siege weapon. The GM determines whether you can—some strange or more complex engines might not be constructible with Warfare Lore.

## Disassembling and Reassembling

A mounted siege weapon without a Speed must be disassembled to be moved, then reassembled in its new location. The GM determines how long this takes, but it's typically 1 day or half a day of downtime to disassemble a siege weapon and 1 to 2 days to rebuild it. As with building a siege weapon, you need a larger crew to disassemble or reassemble a siege weapon at full speed.

## Disabling Siege Weapons

Disable a Device can be used to deactivate most siege weapons that have complex moving parts. This typically doesn't require thieves' tools, takes one success, and uses the standard DC for the item level of the siege weapon.

### Mounted Siege Weapons

Properly using a mounted siege weapon involves three activities: Loading, Aiming, and Launching the payload. Generally, none of these activities can be taken unless the weapon has enough crew, but the GM might allow a smaller crew or even an individual to perform simpler parts of the process, like Launching—especially at a dramatic moment!

#### Aiming

A cumbersome mounted siege weapon can't be Aimed in a moment like a bow could be. A member of the weapon's crew needs to take the Aim activity to adjust a mounted siege weapon's aim. At a given time, the weapon is Aimed in a particular way, depending on the target or area the weapon uses.

- Single Target: Aimed at one square
- Burst: Aimed at one grid corner (that will be the center of the burst)
- Cone or Line: Aimed in a particular direction, to the nearest 45º angle.
When a siege crew member takes the Aim activity, they can move the aim of a mounted siege weapon only a certain distance (or rotate the weapon a certain amount for a cone or line). Typically, the aim for a single target or burst can't be placed too close to the weapon due to the arc in which the weapon shoots. The distance moved or rotated can be found in each weapon's stat block, as is the minimum distance, if applicable. The Launch entry notes whether the attack is against a single target or in a burst, cone, or line.

#### Loading

Any member of the crew can take the Load activity to prepare the weapon, resetting its machinery or helping Load the payload. The stat block lists how many times the activity must be taken to prepare the weapon to Launch. Some Load activities require successful checks to be effective, such as ones that require an Athletics check to Load heavy ammunition into the siege weapon. Once the weapon is Loaded, trying to Load it further has no effect. It doesn't matter in what order the siege weapon is Aimed and Loaded, and the crew could partially Load the weapon, Aim it, and then continue Loading it without disrupting the process.

#### Launching

A member of the crew adjacent to the siege weapon's release can use the Launch action to shoot the siege weapon. After the weapon has been Launched, it must be Loaded fully to be Launched again. No matter how quickly it's Loaded, a single siege weapon can never be Launched more than once per round. The aim remains where it was, and the weapon needs to be Aimed again only if the crew wishes to change the aim. Launch [one-action] ([attack](../Trait/Traits.aspx-ID=540&Redirected=1.md)) Requirements The siege weapon is Loaded; Effect The siege weapon launches its payload, which targets or has an area where the weapon is Aimed.

- Single target Targets a creature, unattended object, or structure in the square the weapon is Aimed at
- Burst Centered on the grid corner the weapon is Aimed at
- Cone or Line Directed where the weapon is Aimed
Each creature, unattended object, and structure the siege weapon is Aimed at or that is in the area takes the amount of damage listed in the Launch action, with a basic saving throw against the DC listed in the stat block. If you're trained in any weapons of the category listed in the siege weapon's proficiency entry, you can use your class DC instead of the weapon's default save DC. The weapon's range increment penalty applies to the Launch DC, as does your multiple attack penalty. If the weapon is mounted on a vehicle, the penalties for attacking from a vehicle in combat also apply. Though a siege weapon doesn't require an attack roll, the Launch action still has the attack trait and therefore counts toward your multiple attack penalty.

#### Moving a Mounted Siege Weapon

A mounted siege weapon has to be built on solid ground and remains stationary while being operated. Some are on wheels or are otherwise easier to move, but none can be prepared or shot while being moved. The GM might allow a mounted siege weapon to be placed on a large enough vessel, such as a sailing ship.

Moving a mounted siege weapon takes concerted effort from the whole crew pulling and pushing. This requires acting in concert, as described under Portable Siege Weapons, with the crew leader taking the Move Siege Weapon activity. This requires the minimum number of crew required to operate the siege weapon and gets no extra benefit for additional crew helping. If a siege weapon doesn't list this action, it can't be moved this way; it has to be disassembled and reassembled.

Move Siege Weapon [two-actions] Requirements The rest of the crew have Readied to Stride on your order; Effect You and the crew Stride, moving the mounted siege weapon with you. The maximum distance equals the slowest crew member's Speed, or the maximum Speed listed in the siege weapon's Move Siege Weapon entry, whichever is lower. The siege weapon's aim moves the same distance and direction the siege weapon moved.

### Portable Siege Weapons

Portable siege weapons require moving in concert and making a single attack supported by the full crew.

#### Acting in Concert

Because portable siege weapons require coordination, operating one requires following a crew leader. The rest of the crew must Ready an action to be taken when the crew leader calls to attack with the siege weapon. The siege weapon's special activity lists what action they need to Ready. For example, all of the crew operating a battering ram—except the crew leader—need to Ready to Stride. Each portable siege weapon has a special activity the crew leader can take if all the rest of the crew have Readied the necessary action. The number of actions it requires and the other specifics can vary greatly depending on what it takes to operate the weapon. It typically requires the crew leader to make a Strike.

#### Striking

A Strike with a siege weapon uses the crew leader's attack bonus. The siege weapon's Proficiency entry indicates the weapon category for the siege weapon. The crew leader rolls an attack roll against the target. Any bonuses or penalties the crew leader is taking apply to the attack roll. See the sidebar above for more on how attack abilities work with portable siege weapons.

#### Bulk

A portable siege weapon has a Bulk entry. This is primarily used when someone is carrying the portable siege weapon around. When it's being used by a crew, this Bulk is distributed among them as they see fit, and it's usually not worth tracking the Bulk unless they're already heavily loaded. If characters try to have more than one of them carry the portable siege weapon when it's not being used (dragging it around a dungeon, for example), this is cumbersome, and they're encumbered due to the challenge of constantly coordinating their movement.

### Siege Weapon Statistics

A siege weapon uses the following stat block format. An individual siege weapon might omit some of these sections, especially a portable siege weapon.

### Siege Weapon Name Item [Level]

Rarity Size Mounted or PortableOther Traits Price This entry lists the siege weapon's Price; Ammunition If the siege weapon requires special ammunition, the ammunition's name appears here, along with the Price and Bulk of each piece.

---

Usage This entry shows whether the siege weapon is mounted or held. The number of hands required for a held siege weapon reflects how many the entire crew needs to use to operate the weapon; Bulk A portable siege weapon has Bulk; Space A mounted siege weapon has this entry to indicate its dimensions, not including any creatures crewing it.
Crew The number of creatures needed to operate the siege weapon is listed here. If additional creatures can assist, there's a second number to indicate the maximum number that's practical. For instance, “4 to 8” indicates the weapon can't be operated by fewer than four creatures, and that no more than eight creatures total can crew the weapon at a time; Proficiency This entry shows the proficiency required to use your class DC when Launching a mounted weapon (see the Launch action) or the proficiency used for your attack roll with a portable siege weapon.

---

AC The siege weapon's AC. This section appears only if the siege weapon can normally be attacked and is more typical of mounted siege weapons; Saving Throws The siege weapon's saves, which typically include only Fortitude and Reflex.
Hardness The siege weapon's hardness; HP The siege weapon's Hit Points, with its Broken Threshold in parentheses; Immunities The siege weapon's immunities; Weaknesses The siege weapon's weaknesses, if any; Resistances The siege weapon's resistances, if any.

---

Speed This is the maximum Speed you can move the mounted siege weapon using the Move Siege Weapon activity.
The description of the siege weapon.
Aim The entry for Aim shows the distance a creature can move the aim by taking this activity and the minimum distance away from the siege weapon the aim can be placed. Load This entry shows how many actions the Load activity takes and how many times this must be done to finish Loading the weapon. Launch This gives the specifics of the Launch action, including the traits, damage, size and shape of the area, and default DC.

### Related Rules

Black Powder Siege Weapons
(
Source [Guns & Gears pg. 172](../Source/Sources.aspx-ID=98.md)
)

## Mobility Devices

Over the history of Golarion, countless cultures have used innovative mobility devices. While you can find more information, as well as several magical mobility devices and additional add-ons, on page 66 of Pathfinder Lost Omens Grand Bazaar, additional devices appropriate to the themes of invention and innovation can be found in this section.

### Wheelchairs

Wheelchairs provide comfort and support when traveling. You can use the item either in an ambulatory manner or every day, depending on your character. Wheelchairs come in a variety of sizes to suit every person regardless of height or body type. Each wheelchair has the following features.

Adjustable Seat Belts: These belts strap around your waist, knees, and shins to keep you in the chair if it's thrown, knocked or handled roughly. You can open and release all of your belts with an Interact action.

Bulk Limit: A wheelchair is strong enough to support you and any amount of Bulk you could typically hold or carry (Core Rulebook 272). Sum up the Bulk of all the items you are wearing, carrying, and stowing on your wheelchair. You take the usual consequences when there is too much Bulk on you and your wheelchair: if there is more than 5 + your Strength modifier, you're encumbered, and you and your wheelchair can't hold or carry more than 10 + your Strength modifier. The wheelchair's own Bulk does not count against your Bulk limit while riding in the wheelchair; it's listed in case you need to carry the wheelchair separately.

Frame: A wheelchair is typically made from common materials like wood. It can also be made from other materials such as steel, or rarer materials like mithral. The wheelchairs presented in this section are assumed to be made from durable wood.

Magic: The wheelchair is considered an extension of yourself. Spells or abilities that change your bodily form are also applied to the chair and it transforms with you so long as you're using it. You can choose what appearance this has. For example, when you transform with wild shape, you can choose to have full mobility of your limbs or have the chair transform to become a wheelchair appropriate for that shape, such as wheelchair harnesses for dogs.

Movement: While using a chair, you Stride at your normal Speed (the Speed listed for your ancestry, with any additional bonuses, penalties, and adjustments applied). You propel a wheelchair by using the handrims. You can propel the wheelchair even while holding something in your hands, but not if you've restrained or otherwise unable to move your hands freely. You are still affected by difficult terrain and other terrain features, and any effect that would immobilize you, give a penalty to your Speeds, and so on based on entangling or hindering with your legs applies to the wheelchair as well. You can use all of your actions while in a wheelchair. The impulse control add-on allows you to direct a wheelchair with your fingers or nerve impulses instead.

Quick-Righting: If the chair is tipped or you are knocked [prone](../Condition/Conditions.aspx-ID=88&Redirected=1.md) while in the chair, you can right yourself using the Stand action, though in this case you are righting the wheelchair instead. An ally can use an Interact action to help right you, allowing you to Stand as a free action triggered by their Interact action.

### Related Rules

Assistive Items
(
Source [Grand Bazaar pg. 67](../Source/Sources.aspx-ID=100.md)
)

Chapter 11: Crafting & Treasure
(
Source [Core Rulebook pg. 531](../Source/Sources.aspx-ID=1.md)
)

>
