# Runelord Survivor - Backgrounds - Archives of Nethys: Pathfinder 2nd Edition Database

Source HTML: `docs/aonprd/Backgrounds.aspx-ID=565.htm`

# [General Backgrounds](./Backgrounds.aspx.md) | [Legacy Backgrounds](./Backgrounds.aspx-Legacy=true.md) | [Regional Backgrounds](./Backgrounds.aspx-Regional=true.md)

## [Abomination Vaults](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=6.md) | [Age of Ashes](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=2.md) | [Agents of Edgewatch](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=5.md) | [Blood Lords](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=19.md) | [Convocation](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=32.md) | [Crown of the Kobold King](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=21.md) | [Curtain Call](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=34.md) | [Extinction Curse](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=3.md) | [Fists of the Ruby Phoenix](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=7.md) | [Gatewalkers](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=24.md) | [Kingmaker](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=22.md) | [Myth-Speakers](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=38.md) | [Outlaws of Alkenstar](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=16.md) | [Pathfinder Society](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=4.md) | [Quest for the Frozen Flame](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=14.md) | [Revenge of the Runelords](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=41.md) | [Rusthenge](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=29.md) | [Season of Ghosts](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=28.md) | [Seven Dooms for Sandpoint](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=30.md) | [Shades of Blood](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=37.md) | [Sky King's Tomb](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=27.md) | [Spore War](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=36.md) | [Stolen Fate](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=25.md) | [Strength of Thousands](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=12.md) | [The Fall of Plaguestone](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=1.md) | [Triumph of the Tusk](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=35.md) | [Wardens of Wildwood](./Backgrounds.aspx-Group=33.md)

---

# [Runelord Survivor](./Backgrounds.aspx-ID=565.md)Background

[Rare](../Trait/Traits.aspx-ID=683.md)
Source [Revenge of the Runelords Player's Guide pg. 16](../Source/Sources.aspx-ID=282.md)
Whether you’re a native-born Saga Lander or someone who came to this region relatively recently, you were there when Runelord Karzoug woke, when Runelord Krune’s followers attempted to resurrect him, or when Runelord Alaznist’s attempt to rework the flow of time itself brought ruin and death down upon the region. You barely escaped with your life and likely lost everything (perhaps even friends and family) as a result of a runelord’s ambition. Since then, you’ve managed to rebuild and recover, and the other PCs are now among your closest friends—you might even regard them as your new family—yet your need for revenge against the runelords has become the primary motivation to better yourself, gain power, and indeed become the renowned hero you are today.

If you played through a previous runelord-themed Adventure Path, with your GM’s aid you could be one of the NPCs who featured in one of those adventures and watched in fear as that campaign’s PCs did the best they could to oppose the runelords. You may or may not blame those PCs for the tragedy that befell you, but you always know it was one of the runelords themselves who was the ultimate cause of your pain. For some time—perhaps even years— after your brush with a runelord nearly killed you, you were forced to scavenge to survive in the wilds, perhaps in hiding or possibly because you had no other choice. In that time, you learned much about the natural world, but perhaps more important to your future plans, upon reintegrating into society you began to study the arts of war to achieve vengeance. When you received an invitation from Queen Sorshen to attend the opening ceremonies for the Circle of Open Hands, you may have had conflicting feelings or even pondered using the opportunity to get revenge. Yet in her invitation, the fact that she apologized for your suffering and made it clear that she wants to make amends for all of those who suffered from the actions of her fellow runelords over the past several years gave you pause. If she truly does seek repentance and wants to help repair the damage the runelord legacy has wrought upon the world, her aid would go a long way toward enabling your own peace of mind.

Choose two attribute boosts. One must be to Constitution or Wisdom, and the other is a free attribute boost.

You’re trained in [Nature](../Skill/Skills.aspx-ID=43.md) and [Warfare Lore](../Skill/Skills.aspx-ID=41.md). You gain the following action.

Hunt Runelord [one-action] ([concentrate](../Trait/Traits.aspx-ID=561.md)) Frequency once per day; Effect You designate one of the seven schools of Thassilonian magic—envy, gluttony, greed, lust, pride, sloth, or wrath—and focus your need for revenge against those who serve these ideals. You do not need to be able to see a creature that serves these ideals to make this designation. The designation lasts until your next [daily preparations](../Rules/Rules.aspx-ID=2575.md).

You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Perception checks when you seek a creature that serves these ideals (including an actual runelord, a wizard who follows that school of Thassilonian magic, or any creature you know or suspect serves the interests of that school’s particular sin—subject to GM’s approval), and a +2 circumstance bonus to [Intimidation](../Skill/Skills.aspx-ID=40.md) checks made to [Demoralize](../Action/Actions.aspx-ID=2395.md) such creatures. Your Strikes also deal 1d4 extra precision to these creatures when they’re [frightened](../Condition/Conditions.aspx-ID=76.md).
